
NAME

  keept - keep pseudo terminal (with (multi) attach/detach)


SYNOPSIS

  keept [OPTIONS] socket [NAME=VALUE]... [COMMAND [ARG]...]


DESCRIPTION

  KeePt runs command under a separate pseudo terminal and keeps the master
  side open in a daemon process.

  User may then (re)connect to this daemon process and get terminal access
  to the command running there.

  The unix domain socket used to connect to the daemon process can accept
  multiple simultaneous connections and user may disconnect any of the
  connections at will.

  This interface works pretty much like what dtach(1) provides, but the
  feature set is slightly different. abduco(1) is similar to these.
  screen(1) and tmux(1) are more versatile alternatives whenever needed.


OPTIONS

  -a  attach only -- if COMMAND [ARG] were given, those are ignored. if
      socket is not live, exit

  -n  execute COMMAND [ARG] but no attach. print failure if COMMAND [ARG]
      is not given

  -m  must create -- COMMAND [ARG] must be given and socket must not be
      live when this flag is there

  -r  "read only"; when attaching, terminal input is discarded by client
      (and if daemon got it, it would also discard received input)

  -x  instead of sending WINCH to resize process running under keept daemon
      (attempt to) resize client terminal using common escape sequences

  -t  attach to the process under keept control even there is no local tty

  -z  when (re)attaching, send ctrl-z as first input

  -L  list active sessions -- the socket argument is interpreted as a
      directory path. keept will scan for socket files in that directory
      and test each to see if it is an active keept session. Only live
      sessions are displayed. This is useful for discovering what keept
      sessions are currently running.

  -u  keept daemon unlinks the pathname/filesystem socket when it exits.
      effective only when daemon starts and executes given COMMAND [ARG]

  Connection time redraw mode options:

  -q  redraw mode is none -- when reconnecting to keept daemon don't request
      anything to be done in this sense. window size does not change. this
      option unsets all previosly given 'b', 'w' or 'l' options (if any)

  -b  redraw mode buffer -- request keept daemon to send the contents of
      circular buffer that contains last output to client. with this flag
      buffer size defaults to 1024, otherwise it is zero (0) (see -s below)

  -l  redraw mode is ctrl-l: daemon writes ctrl-l to process and it responds
      as it wishes (e.g. emacs will redraw its window). window size is
      not changing (at this time)

  -w  WINCH is sent to the process (if terminal size changes)

  Without any of the redraw mode options, connection time redraw mode is 
  what was given when KeePt started, and if none was given at that time, 
  'lw' is used.

  The redraw mode flags can be combined (e.g., -b -w for buffer+winch).
  If both 'l' and 'w' are active, window size will first be communicated 
  to the daemon -- and if size differs, WINCH is sent to the process.

  -@  in system supporting "abstract socket namespace" (linux) bind/connect
      to socket in abstract socket namespace

  -s SIZE  circular buffer size. If 'b' is given, circular buffer size
           defaults to 1024, otherwise w/o this, there will be no buffering

  -g ROWSxCOLS  instead of using current window size use the one given
                with this argument. most useful when there is no tty

  -o FILE  do script(1) like logging to FILE (no buffering). the file is
           initially unreadable (chmod 000) since e.g. cat(1) to the file
           would cause live loop and file filling up quickly

  -p MODE  set socket permissions in octal mode (e.g., 777). This allows
           multiple users to connect to the same session by making the
           socket accessible. For example, use 777 for world-writable, or
           770 for group-writable access. By default, sockets are created
           with standard umask-based permissions.

  -h, --help  display help message and exit


ARGUMENTS

  socket

    The socket name (filename or name in abstract socket namespace) what to
    bind by keept daemon or where to connect by keept client. Unix domain
    socket of SOCK_SEQPACKET type.

    If filesystem socket exists and is not live, it is considerd as it did
    not exist at all (unlinked before rebinding).

  NAME=VALUE...

    Set each NAME to VALUE in the environment (if any).

  COMMAND [[ARG]...]

    The command (and its arguments) to be executed when the socket argument
    given is not available/live (and 'm' explicitly requests this).


ESCAPE CHARARTER

  The keept client detaches from keept daemon by entering Ctrl-Z on
  attached terminal. Currently there is no way to disable or change
  this character.

  Ctrl-Z can be sent to process with '-z' flag in keept command line
  (i.e. reattach after ctrl-z with '-z' in options).


ENVIRONMENT

  KeePt gets its environment from (grand)parent process, and process started
  by keept from keept.

  KEEPT_PID  is added to keept environment before it starts its child
             process. It is internally used by keept to avoid re-attaching
             keept socket, which would be problematic.

  KEEPT_SOCKARG  contains the value of socket argument verbatim. Users
                 may find use for it...


EXAMPLE

  keept -b -w -m a-socket zsh

  keept -a -r a-socket

  keept -L /tmp       # list active sessions in /tmp

  keept -L .          # list active sessions in current directory

  # Create a session in a shared directory with world-writable permissions
  # so other users can join
  keept -b -w -m -p 777 /tmp/shared-session bash

  # Another user can then attach to the session
  keept -a /tmp/shared-session


SEE ALSO

  screen(1), dtach(1), tmux(1), abduco(1), script(1)


BUGS

  No known ones, but some things are unresolvable.


AUTHOR

  Tomi Ollila <tomi.ollila@iki.fi>


LICENSE

  2-Clause (Simplified) BSD license. See LICENSE file for details.

.
